Welcome to A.B.E. testing podcast, your modern testing podcast.
Your hosts, Alan and Brent, will be here to guide you through topics on testing, leadership,
agile, and anything else that comes to mind.
Now, on with the show.
Hello everybody.
We are back.
Uh, Brent, say hi.
And those of you that listened to episode 173, which seems like forever ago, probably two
years ago, we have the return of D'igna.
Oh my gosh.
I didn't ask her to repeat her first.
D'igna Bieda?
How close am I?
Yes, you are on point, Alan.
All right.
D'igna, there you go.
Well, welcome back to A.B. testing.
We are honored to have you here.
It's like you never left, but a lot has happened since then.
I know.
I'm stuck to be here today with y'all.
We're excited.
We're going to get right into it.
One, just super honored to have you here.
You know, we have, as you know, we have only three listeners and when we get someone actually
requesting to be on our podcast, it's especially someone who actually is smart and knows what
they're doing.
I feel very honored.
So it's great to have you here.
I mean, I feel confused, right?
Our podcast, smart person, I'm like, ow, what's going on?
Hey, we can fix that with how we're about to talk in a moment.
We are.
And just as an aside for our listeners, Brett sounds a little distorted now.
I think that should be fixed when we get the audio.
So I'm not going to worry too much about it, but we're going to get started.
So D'igna was just holding up a book.
Dun dun dun.
It's a book called Brain Refactor with a very long, a very long subtitle that I did not
memorize and nor can I read on the screen.
But OK, let me read it for you.
Let me read it for you.
Yes, please.
It says optimize your internal code to thrive in tech and engineering and get more success,
fulfillment, money, opportunities, impact and growth.
Because that's what you get when you refactor your brain.
And we talked about this concept a little bit last time when we talked, but now you've
refined it and expanded or written a whole book about it.
But I'm just going to ask a question.
I think I know the answer to it, but I want you to answer it.
So what inspired you to draw these parallels between maybe we didn't talk about this
last time, the parallels between programming and the brain?
It seems so obvious to me now.
And I felt like it's not really a common perspective that people have.
But by having this perspective of your brain being essentially kind of like a product that
has software that you can just update whenever things are not working the way you'd want
them to be makes it so easy and fast to refactor and deploy changes, right?
And then see better outcomes.
So in my career, when I think about what I always wanted to do, for some reason I was
always chasing impact.
And at first I thought if I started robotics and build robots, I'm going to make impact.
I'm going to build the future.
Then I moved to software engineering because I had programming classes in my robotics curriculum
and it paid better.
And I thought if I deploy an app and millions of people have it in their hand, I'm going
to have an impact.
And that felt fun for a moment, for a few years.
But then I burned myself out.
And then I realized as I was going through therapy sessions to get help with burnout
and some other things, I realized that having a conversation with someone who gets what
it is that I was going through and could help me change my perspective, that was the
impact I was chasing all along.
So the therapist had a massive impact on my life and perspective and it quickly improved
after just several sessions.
And now this is what I do with my coaching clients as a coach, right?
Because I moved from programming computers to reprogramming human minds.
So essentially, this is a very long answer.
No, no, it's a great answer for context because Brent and I also are both fans of getting
feedback through therapy.
And I have learned indirectly a lot of leadership technique by doing the things my therapist
does.
Like, I've learned how to get past managing the work and managing the person by using
some of the skills I've observed myself.
So one of the things I talk about a lot is just it's so important to reflect and think
about what you've done.
A lot of head nodding as I was reading through some of this stuff, just thinking about, and
I'm going to get into a whole bunch of it.
I don't want to jump around too much, but just a whole bunch of thinking about what you're
doing and being purposeful about how you're approaching the work and not just doing the
work.
And I love that you brought up burnout.
Again, I'm going to bring that up again in a minute.
Brent, did you want to add on that before I go on to the hard stuff?
Yeah, no, there's a couple of things that what D'Agna said reminds me of, right?
Yes, years ago when I was a metal manager, I'm a frontline manager now, but years ago,
one of my leads came to me and she said, I never met someone that was as good with technical
problems as with people problems.
Because normally your manager, they're either a people person or they're a tech person.
And I said, thank you, that is actually something I strive for.
And I said, would you like to know my secret?
And of course, she said yes.
And I said, I don't see them as separate problems.
The only difference between the problems is just one thing.
If it's a code problem, I can put any programmer on it to fix it.
If it's a people problem, there's only one programmer that I can assign to fix it.
And that person has to be motivated to do so.
So I spend my job trying to convince that programmer to fix it.
And for those who aren't following along, the programmer is whoever is having, it's
the brain of the person who is having difficulties moving forward.
And then on impact, I thought this is where D'Agna was going to go, but on impact, right?
I learned many years ago that I will never provide even medium to long term impact on
any of the engineering tasks that I do.
My impact is going to be through the people I train.
Now, just as an aside, I did do an automation years ago and that thing lasted close to 15
years.
But now that's dead.
And that type of automation, it usually gets rotated through every three to five years.
So the fact that it survived that long was fantastic.
But 10 years from now, no one's going to remember the data science or the code that
I wrote today because we're changing things too fast.
But the people I pissed off or the people who view me as their favorite manager ever,
they are going to remember me.
That's who I'm impacting.
Yeah.
So it's funny, just today for my Five for Friday series on angerweasel.com, I read
an article, I posted about an article, talked about how we should pay our engineers to stay,
don't let them leave.
And they brought up a point that people who have been at a company a long time know a
lot about execution at that company should pay to recruit them.
But while I agree with that part mostly, I think a lot of people equate years in the
field to how much they should be getting paid.
I've been doing this for 20 years.
I should make the same as other people making 20 years, but it's not.
People progress differently.
And one of the things you talk about, you brought it up in the introduction a little
bit too, is people get stuck in their career despite being deeply technical and being
able to be a great coder.
What are some of the common mental bugs you've seen in engineers that hold them back?
Yeah.
I like to call them either bugs or inefficiencies.
And again, therapy kind of works like a debugging session, right?
You jump into that mental code and you start understanding, except it's not line after line,
file after file.
It's more like memory after memory, belief after belief.
And that's what you're debugging there, right?
So Brent, just piggybacking on what you said, having impact through people rather than products,
in the way that I see things, you had put some programming in their minds and that's
why it's lasting.
Those lines of code that were probably not going to be refactored anytime soon in their
mental legacy code base.
But what I've seen over and over and over again in my own career as an engineer, as
well as the clients that I currently coach, a lot of the time there are four common obstacles
that stop you from getting that impact, getting that promotion, getting that success, however
you want to frame it, that you're chasing.
And that's imposter syndrome, burnout, trouble dealing with other people, and self-marketing
struggles.
So in my book, I essentially dive into how brain works similar to code and how you can
apply your programming skills to refactor whatever is not working.
And then there are remaining chapters that talk specifically about those obstacles and
case studies of my clients who had overcome them.
So again, it's imposter syndrome, burnout, trouble dealing with other people, and self-marketing
struggles.
And when it comes to trouble dealing with other people, because we were just talking
about that too, how sometimes you need the person who has the issue just upscale,
like update something in their programming so that they can get past their problem.
I see a lot of the time that in our engineering education, we tend to overvalue technical skills.
And then the people skills are completely dismissed.
Like, people, but I mean, as engineers, we create products for other people and with
other people, like even if you're the only developer on the team.
So like the people aspect is just inescapable.
And that kind of foundational piece of knowledge is missing from engineering agenda.
Right?
Wouldn't you agree?
I would.
I actually even take it further because I have a hypothesis around people who are introverted
or have a preference to sort of avoid people.
I think it stems from personal issues that they are attracted to engineering type aspects.
And then when they try to grow, right, they do hit that wall that you're talking about
because they've spent their whole life probably successfully minimizing people in it.
And then in order to grow, I mean, you just can't avoid it.
So I have a question I didn't plan to ask, but I totally believe, I totally agree with
everything you said, D'Agna.
I do a lot of interviewing.
I always, I threw out my whole career.
I've probably interviewed thousands of people and I always like to look for the people
who are hungry.
And these days, especially human, those human skills, those abilities to deal with people,
because especially now compared to early in my career, the tech changes so fast, you're
always going to have to learn new tech.
And I wonder if it's like, are we hiring the wrong people?
Like, I'm going to go off on a tangent here because I have been referring to Daniel Pink's
A Whole New Mind, the book he wrote, but what are the books he wrote before drive and
drive is fantastic.
A whole new mind is great.
But he talks about the fact that the right brain thinker, the creative thinker, the people
that and those people have some people skills, but the right brain thinkers are going to
be the leaders in knowledge work of the future.
And at the time it was like, eh, nice idea, nice little story here, but I'm kind of seeing
it become more true.
So should we, uh, I'm going to ask a weird question because the, the answer is maybe
not as obvious as I want it to be.
Should we stop, should we hire people on their ability to work successfully and influence
others?
But most of our emphasis on that and just rely on the fact we can teach them tech because
to me, that feels a little easier than trying to take these tech people and teach them people
skills like which, which do you think is harder?
That's a difficult question.
I'm not going to lie, Alan, there's like so many layers.
I knew it was when I asked, but I couldn't help but think it.
So let me answer indirectly.
And let me tell you this, a lot of bootcamp graduates who have former careers that are
not very analytical as I work with them, I see them progress very quickly because they're
smart enough and dangerous enough to know what they're doing in their technical skillset,
but they have this balance of valuing technical and the non-technical, the soft, the people
skills kind of on the same level.
And that happened to me in my career too, believe it or not, when I was this subject
matter expert, having years of experience, being really technical, praised for the quality
of my engineering work.
And I got passed over for a promotion for someone who wasn't even a bootcamp grab.
He was a self-taught dev.
And the reason he got the promotion that I wanted to a team league position, because
again, he was a fast learner.
He could figure out how to solve problems, but he had this master collaborators mindset.
And I was more leaning towards like being a lone wolf, you know?
And he's like, okay, you can be great at solving engineering problems.
And if that's all you ever want to do, that's fine, but that doesn't help your
career.
So to answer your question, I feel like what's important is to bring that balance in perspective
in.
And I don't know where does it start.
Does it start with college?
Does it start with hiring more bootcamp and self-taught devs?
And with AI right now that can create code for you.
I mean, who knows where the future is going to take us, right?
But the reality is, again, we're circling back to the fact that people need people skills,
even if they work on hard technical problems.
Even if you have to do a presentation and explain what it is that you just deployed
in this amazing new feature, or onboard a new person, or help them understand the
code base that you created so they can take over your work and carry on and probably
refactor every line of code that you ever written.
You have to be able to have those people skills in order to pass all that knowledge that's
in your head to theirs.
So I would say that we have to figure out a way to bring that balance back.
And that's kind of what my book talks about too.
So I'm hoping to have impact throughout my book now, because I feel like it can change
people's perspective in a way that could potentially shape the future of the tech
environment of the tech industry.
I agree.
I think there's so many questions to ask.
I do want to mention that I've hired a bunch of bootcamp grads.
I have one on my team now, former physical therapist, crushing it as a developer.
Right?
I know.
Yeah, I really like it because they have such a different perspective is so great.
And at Microsoft when I was there, I was called an as appropriate interviewer.
It's a story I've told a couple of times on the show.
I was the last interviewer in the group.
So many programmers, like pedigrees that I couldn't even approach, schools I could not
get into.
I talked to them and they know everything about regurgitating algorithms, but they can't
communicate or hold a conversation or think even.
So it's just weird.
So I like the idea of looking at the brain.
Brent, I have lots more questions, but you want to say something.
Yeah, they like, I think we're kind of talking about street smart versus book smart.
Right.
And like we absolutely need to balance.
Like I was thinking about the other angle, right?
People who have really strong people skills, right?
The, there is a problem with them as well.
They don't want to be in their office writing code.
They hate that isolation.
Like they would, they would prefer to be with others.
And so to me, I think, yeah, some balance is necessary.
And quite honestly, like I do think that if you are at either the extreme, the way the
industry is going, like, I don't know where, Dagman will fall on this one, but I'll say
like the way the industry is going, if you're at either of the extreme, it's probably not
an environment where you're going to thrive because you do have to balance, right?
It's it's, you're a great person, but it'll be like a fish trying to live in the desert.
Yeah.
I don't know where you're going next, but I, I, I quickly wrote down in Dagman, I appreciate
you repeating it twice because I did not write it down fast enough.
On your list of four imposter syndrome, self-marketing struggles, burnout, and trouble dealing with
other people.
Um, I know which one blocks me.
I'm curious about you before I share which one blocks me.
Well, that's a good question.
You are jumping ahead a little bit, but I want to go into that.
Let me think about that for just a second.
Okay.
I have experienced burnout before and I kind of learned how to deal with that.
And it was, there was a bunch of factors there and, and, um, I know how to recognize it when
it's happening.
Um, I've dealt with all four.
I think I have dealt with all four, probably the one I struggle with the most is self-marketing
struggles.
And that's the same with me.
Cause I, I just, I feel like I'm just going to do a good job.
My work should speak for itself.
If you don't recognize it, I don't care.
100%, 100%.
If I do my job right, it speaks for itself.
And if it doesn't speak for itself, I'm not doing my job right.
Dad, no, where do I have it wrong?
That's such a huge balloony.
I mean, let me tell you if that was the case, I would have had that team lead job
I wanted like that, you know, because, uh, no, no, sorry, you wouldn't because what you
told us is that the other guy was better with people and you were good with tech.
Right.
And a manager is going to look at both things.
Yes.
Okay.
All right.
Go ahead.
To baloney.
Yes.
Baloney.
So in the book, I give this a fun example of like, imagine if you were a painter instead
of an engineer, and instead of creating a piece of code, you're creating a painting, a piece
of a painting, right?
And say that the tools that you have are new tools because you haven't played with them
before.
So like the brush is not comfortable to hold and maybe the paint dries too fast.
So you're not able to paint as fast.
And then there are some meetings that you haven't seen foreseen in your company and
they just blow up your deadlines and timelines and everything seems to be moving.
And then sprint comes to an end.
And whenever you deliver what you were meant to deliver, um, I'm trying to figure out
how to explain, cause I just realized that I'm not going to, like not everyone will
see the visual of the two paintings.
So basically I put in the book, Van Gogh's painting of sunflowers and a kids created
version of that exact same painting, right?
With the technical skills, whether you create the Van Gogh's version or the five year old's
version of that same painting, nobody's going to know unless they dive into the code,
unless it causes business issues.
So as long as that work that you're delivering is staying somewhat undetected and nobody's
like paying attention and looking at your hands in peer programming, for example, people
are just not going to be aware.
And then even if people are going to be aware, they are most likely to be the ones who code
with you and don't necessarily have an impact or say over you getting that promotion,
getting that salary increase.
So they are not the decision makers.
If you want to make sure that the decision makers know, you have to be able to talk about
it because code is not paintings and people don't look at them, don't dive into code most
of the time and they just don't understand.
So your work is not a painting.
It does not speak for itself.
Yeah, I'm a little offended about code isn't painting.
I kind of reject that notion.
My code is art.
But no, I'm kidding aside.
Ask a salesperson if they see the beauty.
No, you've put me into an objective mode, which I find is best for me.
Like if I can view myself objectively, then I'm able to talk to myself as if I would
have mentee.
Yeah, it's like the impact for me, like I haven't cared about a promotion for a long
time.
What drives me is the opportunities to have larger and larger impact.
I am currently a front line manager on more than one occasion.
I have VP level scope.
I love my job.
But that said, I would love to find ways to get more people coming to me with their interesting
problems.
That's where I view self-marketing struggles because I hate writing.
I hate tooting my own horn.
I hate all of that.
Like for me, the perfect solution would be to hire a PM and go like, hey, this is what
my team did.
Go write up something nice.
Anyway.
And that makes sense.
Many of us think that way, right?
Self-marketing is not natural.
I would say it's not, what's the word I'm looking for?
I would say it's not fun.
Not the way that we're brought up.
And not because here, like in my book, I explored this idea of having a merge conflict,
right? And it's perfect because it talks about self-marketing struggles in that particular
example.
Let's say you do want to market yourself better, but in your mind, marketing equates to cheating
or lying to people or selling them things they don't even need.
So your marketing model, as long as it is close to dishonesty and you believe yourself to
be an honest person and you want to work in integrity until you update that marketing
model in your own legacy mental code base, you're going to avoid self-marketing.
But guess what?
Whenever you're able to update the marketing model in your own mind, that will allow you
to talk good about yourself in front of other people with integrity of what you believe
to be true.
And that could potentially increase your impact because if people know the value that you're
able to bring to the table brand, they might be like, oh, Brent's my guy.
I'm going to go to him because I know he's going to solve my problem, but they're not
going to know unless you help educate them about what it is that you bring to the table
as a professional.
I feel like there's an overlap.
I'm curious in your perspective on this, Dagnah, between imposter syndrome and the self-marketing
because maybe I don't self-market because I have imposter syndrome.
Absolutely.
So how does that work together?
So the imposter syndrome, the way I see it, it's essentially because I want to differentiate
it.
I think that sometimes in the tech industry, it's being overused.
Other doubts and worry and feeling like you don't know what you're doing is normal, right?
As long as it doesn't spiral down and make you stuck or make you not take opportunities
or make you step down from a newly acquired position.
So the question here is, what do you do when that worry comes up in your own mind?
If we were to compare it to a log message, how do you debug it?
Do you just let it sit there and bother you?
Does it make some routines spiral down and you feel like you're not worthy, like you
shouldn't be there, like everybody will know you're a fraud and you lose your job and you
shouldn't be doing what it is that you're doing?
That's imposter syndrome, right?
It's getting to the point that it's preventing you from growth.
The alternative to imposter syndrome is just understanding that growth is uncomfortable
and you have to go through growing pains.
And I have young kids and my four-year-old came to me the other day, he's like, mom,
my legs are hurting.
I'm like, buddy, you're growing.
It's normal.
I'm sorry you feel that way, but that's just part of growing, part of growth.
Growing pains are natural, but we like to avoid discomfort and pain as a society, right?
And does imposter syndrome impact how you market yourself?
Of course, but it affects it more from the perspective of what is the model of yourself
that you have in your own mind rather than the model of marketing that I was talking about
a moment ago.
Yeah, yeah.
Now I can see that.
I think my, and you're absolutely right to bring up the fact that imposter syndrome is
overused and really what I was talking, it's just this self-doubt that comes from
trying something new or doing something in a different way.
I have definitely had those moments of imposter syndrome in my career, but certainly, yeah,
certainly the self-marketing is the biggest thing I need to work on.
I'm going to reread that chapter.
I would like to dive into the brain refactor algorithm.
I think it's really fascinating and a really good take on how to approach this.
Again, I'm sure about self-reflection, but can you walk through how you came up with that
and walk through the different steps of that brain refactor algorithm?
Yeah.
So, you know, the funny thing about the steps is that I kept doing them with my clients
as I was coaching them, but I didn't know that this is what we were doing at the
time.
So when I sat down to actually write the book and tried to figure out basically reverse
engineer my process to then be able to share it in a book content with other people, that's
when I was able to kind of name the steps.
For the first two steps, well, let me probably, it would be smart to say what the steps
are and then dive into the explanation.
But essentially, step number one is identifying root causes.
And we know that from programming, right?
Whenever there's a bug, we do it all the time.
That's the first thing that we do.
The second step is planning out the refactor.
So once you know what's not working, then you want to figure out what kind of code
you want to put in that place instead.
What is it?
How are you trying to fix the issue?
In this third step, we want to script new responses.
In the fourth step, we build libraries of evidence that support our refactor.
And the fifth step is continuously execute.
I was really tempted to call it something similar to CICD, but it just didn't feel right.
Yeah.
I like it.
And that first step is something maybe not enough programmers do, just stop and reflect
on what went wrong.
But as Brian Merrick used to say, maybe an example would be good here.
Can you walk through an example of what it would be like to walk through these five steps?
Absolutely.
So let's say that you have trouble with self-marketing yourself, right?
So the first thing you want to identify root causes.
You want to figure out, OK, why do I have trouble marketing myself?
Is it something that I believe about myself?
Or is it something that I believe about marketing?
Are there any models in the past that I've observed that led me to act that way?
Maybe my parents were really honest and humble.
And now I'm trying to just model that behavior.
And I'm not even conscious that I'm trying to do that, that I'm just repeating a pattern
I've observed over and over and over and over again growing up.
Or maybe it's a cultural thing where you grew up in a certain culture that expected
you to behave a certain way.
You just did because that's what we do as humans who live in tribes and communities and societies.
We just try to adhere to those standards so that we can feel like we belong
because that's good for our survival.
And that's how you would really dive into identifying the root causes.
You want to do the debugging of your thinking processes, of your beliefs.
Because here's something that most of us never hear.
And it's like Psychology 101.
Our thoughts are not true.
Or at least not all of them are.
Although we do assume that they are and we barely ever question them.
But the reality is they are artifacts of our lived experiences
and those models that we've inherited in our mental legacy code.
So as we're going to identify the root causes,
we have to first debug and understand where is this all coming from.
That's really the step number one.
Nice.
And then, so if I'm working through this, and this is,
I'm just using the podcast for free coaching.
Sorry, I'm going to find my root causes.
Smart.
I do want to say it.
It is smart, but I'm part of the podcast too.
And I would like Dagnah to come back again sometime.
So let's not do her whole book on the podcast.
It is really good.
It's a missing link.
As Jerry Weinberg says in software and technology,
and technology eventually it's always a people problem.
And it's just so important.
And I think, I feel like either in a blog post recently of mine
or one of the podcasts, we've talked about just the need
to reflect and how important it is.
That's really how I got.
Here's a story I've told a bunch of times.
I had been at Microsoft for about five years.
I was in this leadership program.
And one of the things they did was a thing called the MS360,
where they got an extensively long survey sent
to your manager, to your employees,
to people you work with in your team,
people you work with across the company.
And they all fill out this survey.
It's extensive.
It takes a lot of time.
They stopped doing it because it took too long.
And afterwards, I met with an HR business partner
to go over my results.
And they said, Alan, everyone you work with
thinks you do great work and get a lot done,
but they also think you're a bit of an asshole.
And it wasn't until that time I worked with them.
And I just worked on it because that was sort of the way
people behave.
My role models were that at Microsoft.
But that's when I began to take the time
to reflect on how I was coming across.
And there's just a big leap to say
I can debug and reprogram the way I approach other people
in my work in order to be more effective.
And then, of course, since then, I've
become infatuated with debugging people, including myself.
And that's where you got to start, really, with yourself.
Yeah.
And it's helped a lot.
And I don't think enough people realize.
And maybe that's my next question.
Enough people realize that they need
to reflect and address themselves.
And maybe their work just won't automatically
speak for themselves.
So why do you think it is that people
don't realize that they need to debug their brain?
OK.
Can I read a piece from my book?
Because I feel like I found one that perfectly
answers your question.
OK.
So there are two paragraphs across a few pages.
So let me dive into the first one.
Everything you do or don't do follows
your internal mental code.
Your life experiences program you to be who you are,
think the way you think, and act the way you act.
There's a perfectly valid reason behind everything you do.
I mean, everything, even the stupid stuff.
That reason always falls in line
with the source code of your mind.
Now, how is that related to self-marketing?
Perhaps you've received endless cultural messages
about being humble, staying in your lane,
not ruffling feathers, or perhaps you
decided to become invisible because that
felt safer in the past.
It could have been critical for your physical or psychological
safety.
Being invisible may have kept you
from the attention of someone who scared you.
It was a great feature back then because it
shielded you from the potential negative consequences
of being seen.
But the problem, as you may notice,
is that it might bring your talents to people's attention.
So here I talk about receiving compliments
and getting at ease with receiving compliments
because that helps with self-marketing.
So you realize that you might have wanted to be invisible,
and then you check in with your mental models
on vulnerability.
And it turns out there are no good models
for how to be vulnerable and feel safe at the same time.
In your mind, you'd rather die than put yourself
in a situation where you're either exposed
and can be criticized, where overwhelming emotions might
surface, or where you might get into a conflict situation.
And that's why you opted into not speaking up
and staying quiet, to avoid conflict,
to avoid criticism, to avoid strong emotions.
In that set of mental models, being invisible,
playing down your achievements, brushing off compliments,
are all behaviors that make perfect sense.
Those models played an important role
in your mental programming, optimizing for your survival
and keeping you safe.
And the thing is, those models are no longer working for you.
They used to back when they were put into place.
And we see it with code all the time,
when we put a dirty hack to really quickly solve
a problem that then blows up months later
because the code has evolved.
But that piece of programming that was beneficial
at one point in time is now causing harm.
Yeah, yeah.
What I realized while you were reading that is,
your brain programming is always happening
because five years at Microsoft taught me
that getting work done was more important
than leaving bodies in the wake.
And that programming happened because of the way I worked,
the way I worked with people I looked up to,
and then it changed again.
It changed from there once I took control
of who I wanted to be.
But what I was missing to get better at it
was this framework, which I really, really like
for looking at yourself.
It makes a lot of sense.
As we've been talking,
I mentioned I went through the book very quickly,
but as I've been talking,
I realized that way back at the beginning of the podcast,
you said, it's just so obvious to me now
how programming the brain and programming code are the same.
And even in 45, 50 minutes of talking here today,
I'm beginning to see the same.
I'm not beginning, I am seeing the exact same thing.
It becomes so obvious.
And you cannot see it once you see it, right?
No, and I will say a similar thing.
Just having you,
like talking about the self-marketing struggles
and then having you read those paragraphs.
Alan knows a little bit about this.
I'm definitely not comfortable sharing with it on the podcast,
but I will absolutely say
I was immediately able to connect the dots, right?
In terms of step one, RCA,
in terms of my own particular thing.
And I'm like, okay, right?
And here, we talked about it last time,
like, and maybe there's a good opportunity here
to go ahead and do the,
God, what is the word?
You go ahead and self-market your other business as well,
because, right?
So when we last talked, and I still,
like you already mentioned on the podcast,
sorry, I don't even need to ask,
you still have clients, right?
You have room for more, I assume, yes, no?
Yes, I do.
Okay.
I will happily get new clients, absolutely, yes.
So I already have a therapist,
but I'm just gonna now advertise,
I'm just in those couple of paragraphs, right?
The fact that she's taking these problems
and communicating them in a taxonomy of language
that most, certainly every one of our listeners
will understand, right?
It's gonna help connect the dots.
And if you feel like that is something
that could be even more tangibly helpful to you
in a one-on-one, right?
Reach out to themindfuldev.com,
reach out to DAGNA,
and try to make a connection there.
Like, I've already, like just in the span
of this conversation, like your book is on order,
I haven't read it yet, but it's on its way to my house.
And I'll say, yeah, like those connect.
Now, I'm absolutely certain I understand the cause of their,
like I'm not a newbie in this industry
in any way, shape, or form.
I have learned to manage many of the things
that a lot of newbies will do in this space, okay?
But I still absolutely hate self-marketing.
I still absolutely hate doing it.
I do still very strongly believe
that my work should speak for itself,
but what you have convinced me to do further
is that, yeah, that's good, but it's not enough, right?
And so, does that even the refactor,
like I don't wanna take up the rest of our time on this one,
but now I'm like, okay, so what would be the refactor?
What would I want instead?
What is a better behavior?
And then there was one thing,
particularly to our audience,
I didn't hear in your steps,
and that is, how do you test the refactor?
Like, we're a testing podcast,
how do you test the refactor?
Is that part of your steps?
So, let's look at the reality of creating apps.
Not everybody has a great way to test things, right?
Or even writing tests,
but everybody will end up getting feedback
from the end users eventually.
Everybody, if you create an app
and you never listened to this phenomenal podcast
and you never cared about writing tests,
at the end of the day,
someone is going to use your app or program
and they're going to give you feedback.
That's how you know when things start working.
Or if there's more stuff that needs to be refactored,
because maybe there are some other things
that are coming up, right?
In the end of explaining all the five steps
of the brain refactoring algorithm,
I talk about the merge conflicts.
That's another thing to be on the lookout for, right?
Merge conflicts, similarly to code in our brain,
what happens is if you hold two conflicting views,
you will still see yourself being stuck
with the old behaviors or self-sabotaging yourself
or procrastinating on the things that you really think
that you want to be doing now
because you've updated the models, the relevant models,
and things are still not working.
For some people, merge conflicts
come up as physical sensations in their body,
more tense neck and shoulders,
their stomach twisting and hurling,
or just feeling kind of antsy and not at ease.
So...
How would you differentiate between merge conflicts
and let's say work-related stress?
Would you?
Or would you say it's essentially the same...
If you feel stress, it might be indicative
of what you're calling a merge conflict.
So if you're in the process of implementing
the brain refactor algorithm and you notice more stress,
that's probably related, right?
It's all about awareness and observation
and understanding kind of how things ebb and flow
and what might be connected and not.
And it's not really about judgment,
it's more about just doing the debugging
and understanding what might be coming into play.
I wanna add an observation on testing,
going back to my story.
That feedback doesn't necessarily have to be
someone giving me feedback.
What I learned to do,
and I really began to focus on active listening,
it's become a passion of mine,
like just paying attention to how people are reacting
to what I'm saying and then in trying in real time
to match that to how I'm expecting them to react.
Knowing when I need to change the message
because of the way people are,
because body language reacting much harder
in the flat virtual world than 3D world.
I remember I would have people in meetings with me,
I would ask them afterwards,
I would do that reflection and ask them like,
my intent in this meeting was to do this,
how do you think I did and get some feedback there?
But a lot of it is just learning to read people.
If I make a change in my brain programming
that's supposed to affect the way I deal with other people,
for example, or even the way I do self marketing,
I'm testing that constantly
because I can look at how other people
are receiving what I'm doing.
So we talk a lot about feedback loops on this podcast
and I think we can use the other humans we're around
as we do these things,
all involve reason people get blocked
is they're human interconnections
and we can use those to,
anyway, I'm just repeating myself now,
but lots of observations coming together here, very cool.
Awesome, I'm glad you guys are getting value
just from us having this conversation
and I'm super stoked that Brent has ordered my book,
it's available on Amazon.
So that's amazing, thanks so much.
I have a question, is it out?
Because I thought it said like it comes out October 1st.
So this is like a launch strategy, Alan.
Basically, the Kindle comes out on October 1st
and I have released the paperback version on Amazon
at literally a price that just covers printing and hosting.
I'm not making any money off of the book.
Basically, I released it in paperback cover
so that people who want to read it
and could leave me reviews could do that
and I've been working on it to gain reviews
before the Kindle launches
because that will help me get some love
from the Amazon algorithm when the Kindle launches.
The reviews are great, the book is great.
I think I ordered a Kindle version,
but I'm gonna get, now that I know more,
now that I've read it, it's kind of one of those books
I wanna put some little tags in
and do some highlighting on.
So I'm gonna order a paperback copy as well.
It is, now my worry is-
I, wait, wait, wait, no.
Brent, Brent.
No, no, no.
Stop sharing your Amazon purchases.
No, no, so I have this, right?
I just bought it, right, and it's Arriving Thursday.
So are you telling me it's not Arriving Thursday?
No, it is, the paperback book, pay attention, Brent.
I ordered hardcover.
Yeah, it's coming in the mail.
The Kindle book comes out later.
Oh, all right.
Yeah, you're not listening, you're too busy
getting your wallet case for your Samsung phone.
No, that was for my daughter's phone.
Sure, sure, sure.
Is there, so I had a lot of questions about the book
and I got to almost all of them.
I think I have a good idea what's going on
and I learned so much about it just from diving in.
Is there anything I should have asked
that I didn't about the book?
Yes, so there's one aspect
that I just briefly mentioned in the book
and it's this concept of
whenever you're updating your brain,
it's good to think about the software updates,
which is basically what we were covering here, right?
Going to therapy, having a coach,
this is phenomenal for updating the software of your brain.
So I'm referring here to, to be just exactly clear
to your thoughts, to your beliefs,
to what it is that's kind of running through your head,
the mental legacy code.
But there's also this second aspect, the hardware, right?
Because you could have the best software
and I'm sure you had experienced that in the past
where let's say you're trying to test
your newest Android app with the flashiest of features
on an older testing device.
And it just doesn't work, right?
Because the device does not have the hardware
that is able to support a new software.
And so one thing that I'm really passionate to talk about
is this neurofeedback training that I did,
which is essentially a hardware update for your brain.
And it's something that is a cutting edge,
new thing in medicine,
doesn't require you to really take any pills
or medicine or plants, you're not consuming anything.
You're literally showing up to your sessions,
watching TV in your brain improves itself.
And it's just phenomenal tune up of hardware of your brain.
Wow.
I have never heard of this and as you were talking,
I'm like, oh, Dagnah, no.
Don't tell me I have to lose weight or exercise.
Gross.
I was reaching to tell me.
Showing up every week and watching TV, yeah.
My brain space is one of my better skills.
Boom, Brent is solid, perfect.
Awesome.
I was afraid it was gonna go to that my hardware
because I'm old, maybe too old to reprogram,
but I'm glad that's not it.
Oh no, absolutely not.
So we now know that our brains, thanks to neuroplasticity,
they change throughout our entire lifetime.
So you could be 99 and your brain
could still improve itself.
Yes, yes.
At one point in my life,
I read a lot about neuroplasticity
and the brain's an amazing thing.
So I am excited about this.
I'm gonna post the link to the book.
I just bought a copy.
Mine's coming on Monday because I'm a prime member, Brent.
I'm a prime member as well.
Your eyes work better than mine
and you can still read those stupid paperbacks.
I can't.
Okay, fine, fine, fine.
Anyway, absolutely wonderful having you here.
I was excited, like one,
I went through three stages of excitement.
One, just having you contact me to say,
hey, can I be on the podcast?
It's like, oh my God, you're so good.
Yes.
Two, reading the book and going,
oh my God, this is good.
We need this.
Technology needs this.
And then even another level of excitement,
having you here, walking us through it,
getting more insight, absolutely amazing.
Thank you for spending some time with us today.
Any last words?
It's been my pleasure.
And the reason I really wanted to contact you guys
and get on podcast, number one,
I remember how much fun we had in that
175th episode back in the day.
It was a lot of fun, so I knew I wanted to do it again.
And the second thing is, at the end of the day,
your brain isn't involved in every single thing
that you do, everything.
So if you can improve your brain just a little bit,
everything else will improve too.
Yep.
And those are the things I just have to say.
I've been wanting to find a way to say it in,
but we're about to end.
Dagnah, I love your energy and your passion on this topic.
Like, right, it doesn't play out well in the podcast,
but Dagnah has been smiling this entire time.
She loves this topic.
And I gotta say, like, you find someone
who's passionate around it.
If it helps, if it's something that you're interested in,
engage, these are the people you wanna interact with.
Thank you for coming on, Dagnah.
It's been fantastic.
Thank you so much for having me here.
All right, that's been episode 200 and something.
I'll figure it out later of the AAB testing podcast.
Yeah.